- [Narrator] In our IoC Container,
we have fully baked objects that are almost ready for use.
We now enter the bean post-processing section
of the life cycle,
which is three distinct steps, but we discuss them as one.
So, where we are is, we're now at the last three steps
of the forage bean.
So, we've got pre-init bean post processors,
posting it, bean post processors,
and right in the middle is our initializer.
Let's talk a little bit about being post-processing.
This is the final point of configuration manipulation.
This is our last opportunity to do work on the beans
themselves before they are served to a running application.
Each bean may have additional behaviors added during
the bean post-processing event.
There are two types of extensible
and generic processing before
and after initializer.
The initializer, we've actually already seen this is
the second bean post-processor action.
So again, we've got pre-initializer, then initializer,
then post initializer.
This is a very special case.
Methods annotated with @PostConstruct,
which is one of those lifecycle methods
that we saw are called here.
So, spring has basically done everything it needs
to do for you to use this being at this point.
So, you can now call PostConstruct,
but you're still not in the use phase.
And that's how that PostConstruct works in order
to allow you to use spring, but be guarantee
that the application won't be available
for others to consume.
And the framework actually provides many initializers.
There's many things that could happen during
this initialization phase, not just the ones
that you marked with @PostConstruct.
Now, the bean post-processor interface
is what you would use to do the pre
or post initializer steps.
This interface allows you to inject common behavior
to a class of beans, and when I say,
class of beans like that,
what I'm referring to is you can have
the bean post-process or qualify uncertain bean types based
on criteria and then add their behavior.
This still operate on specific beans,
so it's not applying to the entire bean factory,
it's on specific beans.
And there are two types there's before
and after initializers we've already talked about,
and once again, the framework leverages lots of these
and a lot of proxies are built during
this pre-phase especially.
Now, when this phase is complete,
your beans have been instantiated and initialized.
Dependencies have been fully injected into any constructor
and any method annotated with that auto wire,
any setter methods specifically, beans are ready.
So, post-construction has been called proxies
have been added.
All of the customization that you do to the framework have
also been done at this point.
And now you're ready to use your application.
And that really is pretty powerful that amount
of work happens in a second or two in a running application
because this allows your application
to operate more efficiently at runtime.